This is a repository of supplementary materials for the manuscript 
titled "On the probability of finding a physical solution through shadowing", authored by Nisha Chandramoorthy and Qiqi Wang. 

## Abstract

Based on the shadowing property of dynamical systems, we expect that numerical solutions of governing equations lie close to a true solution -- a shadowing solution -- of the governing equation. This is used to justify, even when the governing equation is chaotic, that numerical solutions represent a true solution. However, shadowing solutions can be \emph{nonphysical}: they may not represent the long-term statistical behavior of an ensemble of true solutions. That is, the probability distribution of a shadowing solution can differ, often dramatically, from that of a solution starting from almost every initial condition. In this paper, we construct analytical examples of chaotic systems in which shadowing solutions are nonphysical. These examples also illustrate that the probability of finding a nonphysical shadowing solution can be 1. Through several analytical constructions, we note that the incorrect assumption of the physicality of shadowing raises questions on the trustworthiness of numerical solutions, and shadowing-based sensitivity analysis of chaotic systems.


## Contents 

The interesting part of this repository is the `code` subdirectory that contains the code (written by Qiqi Wang (qiqi.wang on Github)) that has been used to generate the figures in the manuscript. In each subdirectory, SRB distributions of various maps (equations can be found in the corresponding subsections in the paper) are computed, empirically, using long trajectories. These are compared with the probability distribution of trajectories that shadow various perturbed trajectories of the maps (the perturbations can also be found in the corresponding subsections of the paper). 

The PNG files in this directory (which are the same as that under `figure`) are the figures generated by running the scripts inside `code`. 
